{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green0\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Seven copy number signatures were extracted from the organoid sequencing data\'a0 as described in \{Macintyre, 2018 #9\}, and were found to reflect the inter-patient heterogeneity described for HGSOC tumours. Each HGSOC organoid model demonstrated a mixture of signatures indicating a landscape of copy number aberrations created by multiple mutational processes (\cf3 \strokec3 Figure 1D\cf2 \strokec2 ).\'a0 Copy number signature hierarchical clustering between PDOs and TCGA was performed using a robust version of Aitchison\'92s distance. This metric was chosen to account for the compositional nature of copy number signatures: within each patient, signature exposures are normalised to sum to one, and therefore have to be analysed only in relative terms. The first split of the dendrogram reveals two groups of samples.\'a0 The first cluster quadruples in size the second cluster, and contains all organoid samples, which appear dispersed and present in all its major subsequent splits. The second cluster contains samples from all primary HGSOC cohorts and the exposure characteristics of which fall in two equally-sized groups. The first group contains exposures that have very low exposures of s1 and s3, whilst being very diverse in the remaining signature allocation. The second group contains samples with very low relative exposures of both s4 and s6, but high relative abundance of s5. Principal component analysis on the robust centered log ratio transformed data revealed that organoid exposures capture the diversity of mutational signature exposures of HGSOC primary tissue samples. Two exposure patterns that were slightly underrepresented in the organoids were those characterised by near absence of signatures s6 and s4, and high relative abundance of s1, s3 and s5;\'a0 and by exposures with high relative abundances of signatures s4 and s7 (\cf3 \strokec3 Figure 1E\cf2 \strokec2 ), and depletion of s1.\'a0
\fs24 \
}